# passport-saml-example

This node.js web application demonstrates SSO authentication provided by RIT's Shibboleth Server (https://shibboleth.main.ad.rit.edu/), using the `passport-saml` package.

Config
======

This app requires 3 files to be placed in a folder named `cert` located in the project's root directory. These files include (1) the certificate  of the Identity Provider (IdP). In this case, RIT's Shibboleth Server is the IdP. As a Service Provider (SP), you need to generate your own (2) certificate and (3) private key. These files are named as follows:

- `cert.pem`: SP's certificate (Generated by you)
- `cert_idp.pem`: IdP's certificate (RIT's is contained in https://shibboleth.main.ad.rit.edu/rit-metadata.xml)
- `key.pem`: SP's private key (Generated by you)

Creating Private Key and Certificates
=====================================

Generate the SP files with the following command:
- `openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout key.pem -out cert.pem -nodes -days 900`

The IdP Certificate is contained within the `ds:X509Certificate` tag.
- Copy the tag's contents into a file named `cert_idp.pem`.

Next, copy `.env.sample` to `.env` and edit appropriately. Running this app locally will likely not work since the IdP can't redirect to `localhost`.

Registering the Service Provider
================================

Contact ITS to register your Service Provider. During this step, the IdP Administrator downloads the metadata from the `/Shibboleth.sso/Metadata` endpoint and loads it into the IdP.

Usage
=====

```
npm install
node app.js
```

